hello got a little test for you it's
gonna seem really stupid until I explain
it I don't want you think about it okay
just do it first
all right don't think just do it okay
find something across the room there's
far away from where you're sitting as
possible at least ten feet or so okay
point to it
cover the tip of your finger with your
right handed or left handed cover up the
tip of your finger over whatever little
small object is across the room okay now
close one eye okay and close the other
eye
now which eye that you close if your
fingers shifts at your non-dominant I
okay do it again re verify use the other
hand okay right Angela point to
something across the room tiny small
cover your index finger over it okay
close one eye if your finger is still
over that object that's your dominant
eye one thing that the snooty
photographers do they're actually
brought up this way due to writing
styles but but there's there's an
enormous amount of influences but I used
to fit eyeglasses I grew up it's really
I'm working optical store work in the
back on the lens ometer and I used to
grind down land so this needs to fit
people's the Contacts and glasses and
anyway this is about two which I doubt
that you have where you're looking for
your viewfinder you actually see some
people that are squinting when they're
looking through the viewfinder
you shouldn't have to do that the same
thing actually applies both in archery
and also applies in shooting nice to
give shooting instructions on people on
how to improve their target shooting or
their handgun shooting but got a little
10 acre shooting range about 15 miles
from here and take two or three people
out there and give them lessons on how
prove they're shooting proof technique
about drift shooting anyway all this
applies the photography and your
shooting and now now you need to ask
yourself what is it that you're actually
putting up to your camera is it your
dominant eye or is your non-dominant eye
now the percentage of what the supplies
the people sephora's photography
shooters I'm actually guessing it's
probably in the ballpark maybe ten to
fifteen percent so it's really not that
great but you know some people have
issues when it shooting theory fighter
I've had a few people ask me recently so
they said oh I show you but a shooting
showing us some new grip techniques I
saw you hit both eyes up and he said why
are you doing that I mean I always mean
I'm doing this time right you see a lot
of photographers do that but you first
need to ask yourself are you shooting as
a new photographer every year in advance
damager are you actually shooting with
your dominant eye and that's a really
good question and as is often the case
it may not be the case but it is often
the case you have the eye close that is
the dominant eye that is trying to
overwhelm your shooting now I left I dot
and people actually see me hole up the
camera like so and it seemed that my
right eye is open and I've learnt a few
people ask me this and that prompted the
premise for this video needing to ask
you whether you are shooting through the
viewfinder by using your dominant or
your non-dominant eyes once again you
know point something across the room tip
your finger cover it close one eye okay
whichever eye is open if your finger is
shifted away from it
that's your non-dominant eye which every
finger obviously is over whatever it is
you're pointing it over across the room
that is your dominant eye now if you're
shooting with your non-dominant eye it
probably is the case and willing to bet
percent of the time that you're doing
this number say I am right I don which
I'm not left i dominate and here why
they dominate shooter you're doing this
number and your left eye is like this
right you know it is kind of thank you a
week or two to get used to but you need
to take some strong considerations to
shifting there are a long list of
reasons why you need to be shooting
through your viewfinder with your
dominate I as I said this doesn't apply
to a lot of people but 10% is assists a
significant amount so I surprised nobody
mentioned this before and certain people
were taught that their dad said they
gave McCarran when they're young like
nono hold it over your left eye but you
know your dad didn't know which is your
dominant eye so you grew up putting the
camera up to your wrong eye because
dad's dominant eye is not your dominate
eye
okay I don't it is my left eye that's
why my right eye is always open when I'm
shooting the same thing is true of
tactical shooter like Navy SEALs Delta
Force all these people they're a
tactical shoot if they are ever shooting
with Hernando and you're doing this
number with their handgun or their rifle
you know they have to have situational
awareness to the maximum peripheral
vision that they have you keep one eye
closed because you're shooting when
their non-dominant I will get them or
one of their teammates killed so one of
the first things that is actually taught
look for the Marines and Navy SEAL and
then never never never
Navy SEAL without getting to this fact
is that you have to be shooting with
your dominant eye because you have to
have situational awareness and
peripheral vision and all of this
regarding their shooting is also
applicable to photography your
composition can suffer your shooting
speed can suffer so if you needed to
figure out whether you are or not
shooting with your dominant eye anyway
it's an important point and surprise
nobody's mentioned it till now and I'm
actually surprised that I didn't think
about it until just a second but I
actually got reminded about that because
a few people had mentioned why is your
other eye open when you're showing us
those shooting techniques and I thought
well you know this is something else
that I bet some people are doing wrong
they're actually shooting a through the
viewfinder with their non-dominant eye
anyway thanks for watching